Proceeding Paper

An Intelligent Internet of Medical Things-Based Wearable
Device for Monitoring of Neurological Disorders 

Aravind Raman * and Nagarajan Velmurugan

                                        Department of Electronics Engineering, Pondicherry University, Pondicherry 605014, India;
                                        nagarajanvelmurugan@pondiuni.ac.in
                                        * Correspondence: aravindramanphd@gmail.com; Tel.: +91-7667430293
                                         Presented at the 5th International Electronic Conference on Biosensors, 26­28 May 2025;

                                           Available online: https://sciforum.net/event/IECB2025.

                                        Abstract

Academic Editor: Giovanna Marrazza      In general, epilepsy is considered to be one of most prevalent neurological disorders and
                                        frequently appears as sudden seizures resulting in injuries, accidents, sudden unexpected
Published: 10 November 2025             death, etc. Also, it is reported that around 60 million people across the globe are expe-
                                        riencing various seizures due to epilepsy. So, there is demand for ambulatory seizure
Citation: Raman, A.; Velmurugan, N.     detection devices to prevent such accidents and to improve the quality of life for epilepsy
An Intelligent Internet of Medical      patients. In this work, an intelligent Internet of Medical Things (IoMT)-based wearable
Things-Based Wearable Device for        device is designed and developed to monitor seizures in epilepsy patients. Due to the lack
Monitoring of Neurological Disorders.   of an accelerometer dataset for epileptic seizures, the proposed device was developed, and
Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13. https://      a dataset mimicking seizure-like activities was generated. Further, the proposed device
doi.org/10.3390/engproc2025106013       utilizes an MPU6500-based inertial measurement unit (IMU) which is integrated into an
                                        ESP32 microcontroller board. The ESP32 has a built-in wireless fidelity (WiFi) + Bluetooth
                                        (BLE) un that supports MicroPython v1.22.1 programming. Also, the machine learning
                                        algorithms such as Decision Trees (DT), Support Vector Machines (SVM), and Random
                                        Forest (RF) were programmed using MicroPython v1.22.1 programming and deployed
                                        on a tiny edge computing device to monitor the activity of the epileptic patients. All the
                                        adopted machine learning algorithms were compared in terms of performance metrics such
                                        as accuracy, precision, recall, false positive rate (FPR), etc., and the efficacy of the device
                                        was analysed. Results demonstrate that the proposed device is capable of identifying the
                                        activities of individuals, which is highly useful for epilepsy patients to monitor epileptic
                                        seizures. Furthermore, the proposed device was deployed with an RF algorithm since it
                                        exhibits an accuracy of 95% which is better compared to other machine learning algorithms.
                                        Also, the proposed device is simple and cost-effective and, in the event of a seizure event,
                                        can alert caretakers of epilepsy patients with an FPR of less than 4%.

                                        Keywords: accelerometer; activity recognition; machine learning; internet of medical
                                        things; epilepsy; seizures

Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.       1. Introduction
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article        Generally, seizures are immediate, uncontrollable and abnormal electrical activity
distributed under the terms and         in the brain. Seizures affect the normal activities of a person at the motor, emotional,
conditions of the Creative Commons      behavioural and conscious level. Depending on the neurogenic activity in the brain's
Attribution (CC BY) license             hemispheres, seizures can be further classified into two types, namely focal and generalised
(https://creativecommons.org/           seizures. The epileptic seizure is a neurological disorder caused by the anomalous electrical
licenses/by/4.0/).

Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13                          https://doi.org/10.3390/engproc2025106013
Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13                                                                                                                                                2 of 9

                          discharge or hyperactivity of neurons. Additionally, the seizure is a transient phase, while
                          epilepsy is a chronic disorder and can be fatal at times. According to the World Health
                          Organisation (WHO), epileptic seizures are of concern as a major health issue [1].

                                Focal seizures are partial seizures that occur on a specific side of the cerebral hemi-
                          sphere and later progress to the other side. Furthermore, the focal seizure affects single
                          limbs and further affects limbs on both sides (both arms and legs). Generalised seizures
                          occur due to the simultaneous generation of irregular electrical signals from both sides of
                          the cerebral hemisphere. Also, the generalised seizure can be either a motor or non-motor
                          seizure depending on the behaviour and activity during the seizure attack [2].

                                Seizures can occur during sleep. Sleep and seizures have a bidirectional relationship
                          wherein disturbances in sleep patterns can aggravate seizure susceptibility while seizures
                          can significantly disrupt normal sleep activity. The relation between sleep apnoea and
                          epilepsy provides techniques to treat seizures [3]. Sleeping disorders or sleep deprivation
                          are most common in people with epilepsy. Sleep disorders may aggravate the existing prob-
                          lems and seizures of epileptic people. This can be controlled by anti-seizure treatments [4].
                          Detecting seizures during sleep is a challenging task.

                                Neuroimaging plays a vital role in the characterization and analysis of seizures. Addi-
                          tionally, it enables the visualization of structural and functional brain alterations associated
                          with the activity, especially in epilepsy. The various methods include electroencephalogram
                          (EEG), computed tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single photon
                          emission computed tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET), and ge-
                          netic testing, which provides critical insights about the seizure onset zones for the diagnosis
                          of epileptic seizures [5]. EEG is the most reliable method indicating the unusual patterns of
                          brain signals. Further, observation of the EEG signals helps in the identification of the type
                          of seizure. Neuroimaging aids in the computation of seizures. Additionally, the continuous
                          electromagnetic fields of the brain are evaluated by the magnetoencephalography (MEG),
                          which measures the magnetic fields induced by neuronal activity [6]. Furthermore, MEG
                          enables the characterization of brain activity with millisecond temporal resolution.

                                Recent advancements in wearable technologies have explored new possibilities for non-
                          invasive and continuous monitoring of neurological conditions in real-time applications.
                          The conducting polymer hydrogels engineered through supramolecular strategies have
                          enabled highly flexible and biocompatible wearable sensors for physiological monitoring,
                          as discussed by [7]. Similarly, the development of multidimensional motion sensors has
                          advanced AI-enhanced environments in dynamic settings, namely virtual reality (VR)
                          sports [8]. Furthermore, Wu et al., 2023 [9] demonstrated innovations in nanostructured
                          conductive polypyrrole in the integration of antibacterial and high-performance features in
                          flexible wearable devices.

                                Although continuous monitoring with an EEG setup is not possible in real time, several
                          wearables for seizure detection have been developed. Such devices demonstrate that
                          continuous seizure monitoring outside clinical settings is feasible; however, many existing
                          devices have limitations such as limited accuracy, discomfort on prolonged usage and
                          reliance on a single bio-signal modality. Within this context, the proposed accelerometer-
                          driven hardware­software co-design advances seizure detection. Also, the proposed work
                          employs an electrode-free, accelerometer-based wearable for continuous monitoring of
                          sleep postures and seizure-like activities. By integrating machine learning algorithms,
                          the system not only detects seizure activity with high accuracy but also classifies various
                          sleeping postures, thereby providing dual functionality in a single platform. Finally,
                          the user-friendly hardware with robust machine learning analytics enhances comfort,
                          scalability, etc., providing a practical solution for home-based, privacy-sensitive monitoring
                          of epileptic seizures.
Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13                                                                                                                                                3 of 9

                          2. Literature Survey

                                Seizures occur non-randomly, following circadian rhythms and other factors such as
                          seizure location, hormonal influences, etc. Amengual-Gual et al., (2019) have analysed
                          seizure timing patterns and their distribution across circadian cycles, providing deep
                          insights into the occurrence of seizures in patients with epilepsy [10]. Kusmakar et al., (2018)
                          have demonstrated the automated detection of generalised tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS)
                          by utilising a wearable accelerometer device along with a machine learning algorithm,
                          namely support vector data description (SVDD). Further, the authors have stated that
                          the proposed method includes full-body convulsions to classify from different conditions,
                          namely complex partial seizures (CPS) and psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) [11].

                                Davidson et al., (2022) have proposed a method to enhance the classification of epileptic
                          seizures from EEG data with the use of machine learning methods, namely Naive Bayes Algo-
                          rithm and Genetic Algorithm, for better seizure detection [12]. Additionally, Roy et al., (2020)
                          have conducted a comparative analysis of machine learning algorithms in classifying types
                          of seizures [13].

                                Yu liu et al., (2020) [14] have taken a unique approach in creating an efficient model
                          using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), and in order to improve the accuracy, mul-
                          tiple bio-signals were utilized. However, the authors have faced challenges, namely the
                          requirement for a large dataset to train the modal and signal noise [14]. Moreover, an
                          innovative and unique approach was proposed by Zablar et al., (2024) [15] to self-report the
                          seizures with a mobile application diary which makes the process user-friendly. Further, the
                          authors have demonstrated that the proposed approach has high precision in the patient's
                          self-reporting of seizure occurrence, with higher accuracy [15]. Komal et al., (2024) have
                          reviewed remote seizure detection devices including mobile applications, wearables and
                          biosensors along with their reliability and accuracy [16]. Yadav et al., (2008) have proposed
                          a dual-stage classification system to monitor epilepsy long-term in order to classify the
                          data as non-seizure or seizure [17].

                          3. Methodology

                                In this work, an intelligent Internet of Medical Things (IoMT)-based wearable device
                          is designed and developed to monitor seizures in epilepsy patients during sleep. A seizure
                          event during sleep can be unnoticed and lead to severe causalities. Therefore, it is essential
                          to propose alternative systems for the detection of epileptic seizures that do not rely on
                          conventional EEG electrodes. Such electrode-free approaches are often based on wearable
                          motion sensors, and the accelerometer sensor is one such electrode-less device which can be
                          used for the detection of epileptic seizures. Due to the lack of an accelerometer dataset for
                          epileptic seizures, the proposed device was developed, and a dataset mimicking seizure-like
                          activities was generated. The proposed device was worn on the shin, specifically the tibial
                          area of the lower leg. Furthermore, the placement area was selected based on prior findings
                          that convulsive seizure events typically produce high-amplitude or rhythmic movements
                          in the lower limbs, especially during tonic-clonic seizures. Also, compared to the wrist or
                          waist, shin placement provides good and more consistent accelerometric signals during
                          leg-dominated seizure activity and also minimizes motion artifacts due to unrelated hand
                          movements. A group of volunteers were asked to perform seizure-mimicking activities
                          with the supervision of a physician under controlled conditions. The seizure-mimicking
                          dataset was developed by instructing healthy adult volunteers to perform predefined motor
                          actions which closely resemble common seizure semiologies based on the literature and
                          neurologist guidance. In this regard, seizures such as tonic-clonic movements, myoclonic
                          jerks and hypermotor patterns were mimicked under controlled conditions. Figure 1 shows
                          a hardware block diagram of the proposed wearable device. Further, the proposed device
Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13                                                                                                                                                4 of 9

                          utilizes a sensor module, IoMT controller, battery, battery recharging module, enclosure
                          and strap.

                          Figure 1. Proposed Wearable Device.

                          3.1. Sensor Module
                                In this work, an ST Microelectronics LSM9DS1 inertial measurement unit was utilized

                          to measure 3-axis accelerometer values. Further, the sensor module was capable of measur-
                          ing 3-axis accelerometer values, gyro values and magnetometer values with 9 degrees of
                          freedom (DOF). The sensor module could be connected to a 3.3 Volt power source available
                          on the controller board, and the output of the sensor module was connected to the controller
                          board using the Inter-Integrated Circuit (I2C) protocol.

                          3.2. IoMT Controller
                                In this work, an ESP32 Cam-based controller was used as the IoMT controller. Further,

                          the controller board had a low-power 32-bit central processing unit which could operated
                          at up to 160 MHz clock speed. Also, the controller had built-in SRAM with capacity
                          of 520 KB and external 4MPSRAM. Additionally, the WiFi and Bluetooth modules were
                          integrated into the utilized controller, making it suitable for IoT applications. The machine
                          learning algorithm was deployed to the utilized IoMT controller using MicroPython v1.22.1
                          programming, and the controller received sensor accelerometer values to predict seizures.

                          3.3. Battery
                                In this work, a 3.7 Volt 1500 mAH Lithium Polymer battery was used to power various

                          components, namely the sensor module and controller board. Also, the battery utilized
                          was the rechargeable type, and appropriate recharging arrangements were customized.

                          3.4. Battery Recharging Module
                                The battery recharging module was a type of charging board for a single-cell 3.7 V

                          Lithium Polymer battery. Also, the TP4056-based module-based charging board was very
                          simple, compact and easy to handle with short-circuit protection features.

                          3.5. Enclosure and Strap
                                An enclosure is used to cover the electronic components of the proposed wearable

                          device, and a strap is used to affix the proposed device to epileptic patients.
Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13                                                                                                                                                5 of 9

                          3.6. Proposed IoMT Device

                                Figure 2 shows the proposed methodology for the development of the wearable device
                          to detect epileptic seizures. The proposed methodology consists of two different phases,
                          namely a training phase and testing phase for the development of the wearable device to
                          detect epileptic seizures. The training phase includes accelerometer signal acquisition, pre-
                          processing, feature extraction and training of artificial intelligence (AI)/machine learning
                          models. Firstly, an accelerometer sensor inside a smartphone is utilized to record accelerom-
                          eter values for seizure-like activity. As real epileptic seizure data collection is clinically
                          constrained and ethically challenging, seizure-mimicking activities were performed under
                          controlled conditions with the supervision of a physician. These activities, along with
                          regular sleep postures, were recorded using the smartphone's embedded accelerometer and
                          gyroscope sensor. Additionally, the 3-axial linear acceleration and gyroscope signals were
                          captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. The acquired signals primarily represent time-series
                          data, which are characterized by fluctuations in body movement patterns associated with
                          both normal sleep postures and seizure-mimicking activities. Once the seizure-like dataset
                          was created, the acquired signals were pre-processed using noise filters and then sampled
                          with fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 s. An overlap of 50% was applied, providing
                          128 readings/window. Raw signals are highly susceptible to noise, drift and missing values,
                          which makes the preprocessing crucial before feeding the signals into the feature extraction
                          process. Therefore, a Butterworth low-pass filter was employed to separate gravitational
                          components and body acceleration. Finally, the filtered signals were fed into the feature
                          extraction process. The features such as variance, skewness, maximum fractal length,
                          spectral entropy, mean frequency and median frequency were extracted from both recorded
                          normal and epileptic signals. Further, the various AI models such as decision trees, SVM
                          and RF were trained using the acquired normal and epileptic signals.

                          Figure 2. Proposed Methodology for Development of the Wearable Device.

                                Once the machine learning models were trained, they were tested. In the testing phase,
                          the adopted machine learning models were compared in terms of performance metrics
                          such as accuracy, precision, recall and false alarm rate (FAR), and the efficacy of each
                          model was analysed. By analysing the performance parameters of the various different
                          machine learning models, the best model was selected and deployed on the proposed
                          wearable hardware device. The proposed device can be affixed with the help of a strap to
                          epileptic patients and is capable of identifying epileptic seizures during sleep. Also, patient
                          caretakers can be notified if the patients/individuals undergo epileptic seizures since the
                          proposed device is equipped with WiFi network connectivity.
Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13                                                                            6 of 9

                          4. Results and Discussion

                                In this work, a smartphone, namely an Apple iPhone 11, was utilized to acquire ac-
                          celerometer signals from normal and seizure-mimicking activities. Furthermore, the mobile
                          application recorded the accelerometer signals and stored them in a comma-separated
                          value (.csv) file. A total of 300 accelerometer signals were collected, comprising 150 normal
                          and 150 seizure-mimicking activities taken with the help of the inbuilt accelerometer of the
                          smartphone. Out of these, 240 (80%) of the signals were taken for training machine learning
                          models such as decision trees, random forest and support vector machine. Additionally,
                          the remaining 60 signals (20%), namely 30 normal and 30 seizure-mimicking samples,
                          were utilized for testing, ensuring an unbiased evaluation of model performance. All the
                          acquired signals were pre-processed, and the extraction of features was performed to train
                          and test the machine learning models. Evaluation metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall
                          and FPR were derived using Equations (1)­(4), respectively:

                                       Accuracy  =  TP    +  TP + TN    TN                                   (1)
                                                             FP + FN +

                                       Precision          =     TP                                           (2)
                                                             TP + FP

                                       Recall          =     TP                                              (3)
                                                          TP + FN

                                       FPR             =     FP                                              (4)
                                                          FP + TN

                          where TP, TN, FP and FN denote True Positives, True Negatives, False Positives and

                          False Negatives, respectively. The accuracy measures the proportion of correctly classified

                          postures out of all postures; precision is the proportion of true positive predictions among all

                          predicted positives; recall measures the proportion of true positives correctly identified out

                          of all actual positives; and finally, FPR is the proportion of actual negative classes incorrectly

                          classified as positive. Table 1 presents the performance metrics of various machine learning

                          models such as decision trees, random forest and support vector machine.

                          Table 1. Performance metrices of various machine learning models.

                          Performance  Decision Trees        Random Forest                   Support Vector
                            Metrices                                                             Machine
                                              85%                   95%
                            Accuracy          86%                   93%                             90%
                            Precision         83%                  100%                            90.9%
                                              0.13                  0.15                           90.9%
                              Recall                                                                0.11
                               FPR

                                In this work, k-fold cross-validation with k = 5 was set to evaluate the performance of
                          all models such as decision trees, random forest and support vector machine. Furthermore,
                          this method was chosen to ensure robust and unbiased performance metrics by testing the
                          model on multiple subsets of the data. Also, each fold utilized a different part of the data
                          for validation, while training the model on the remaining data provided a more generalized
                          performance estimate. The comparative results in terms of performance metrics of various
                          machine learning models such as decision trees, random forest and support vector machine
                          are illustrated in Figure 3. Further, the performance metrics such as accuracy, precision,
                          recall and FPR were derived for all three different machine learning models.
Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13                                                                                         7 of 9

                             PERFORMANCE METRICS

                          Decision Trees Random Forest Support Vector Machine

                          85%
                               95%

                                    90%
                                                    86%

                                                         93%
                                                               90.90%
                                                                              83%

                                                                                    100%
                                                                                         90.90%

                                                                                                 0.13
                                                                                                      0.15
                                                                                                           0.11

                          ACCURACY  PRECISION  RECALL                                            FPR

                          Figure 3. Comparison of Various Machine Learning Models.

                                Through comparison, it was observed that the RF machine learning algorithm out-
                          performed the other models with an accuracy of 95%, which indicates its superior gen-
                          eralization capability. However, the SVM followed closely with an accuracy of 90%, and
                          the decision trees trailed with an accuracy of 85% due to their tendency to overfit and
                          higher variance. Furthermore, in terms of precision, RF achieved the highest score of 93%,
                          showing its robustness in classifying epileptic seizures with minimal false positive rates.
                          Also, the SVM achieved precision of 90.9%, while decision trees achieved 86%.

                                From the recall analysis, the RF had a recall of 100%, which highlights its ability to
                          detect actual seizure events without any FPR. However, the RF model was tuned using
                          a grid search to optimize hyperparameters such as the number of trees and the maximum
                          depth of each tree in order to avoid overfitting. Cross-validation was employed to reduce
                          the overfitting issues since the model was validated on different folds of the data. Moreover,
                          it was ensured that the model was not simply memorizing the training set but improved
                          with new data. Additionally, the SVM achieved recall of 90.9%, and the recall of decision
                          trees was comparatively lower at 83%, which indicates possible missed classifications. The
                          FPR was lowest in SVM, at around 0.11, followed by decision trees (0.13), and the highest
                          in RF (0.15). However, RF was most sensitive with high recall; its slightly higher FPR
                          demonstrated the trade-off between specificity and sensitivity.

                                The results demonstrate that RF provided the most balanced and accurate classification
                          for the detection of epileptic seizures from various sleep postures due to its ensemble nature
                          and capability to reduce overfitting. Also, the performance of SVM was consistently good,
                          with higher reliability and minimal FPR. Moreover, the decision trees were simple and
                          interpretable but comparatively weaker, especially in recall and accuracy. The RF machine
                          learning algorithm has been deployed in the proposed IoMT-based wearable device.

                          5. Conclusions

                                In this work, a cost-effective and intelligent IoMT-based wearable device was de-
                          signed and developed for the monitoring of neurological disorders, especially seizures
                          of epilepsy patients. Addressing the lack of real-world accelerometer data for seizures,
                          a representative dataset was generated to train and evaluate the proposed system. Further,
                          three different benchmark machine learning algorithms, namely decision trees, random
                          forest and support vector machine, were utilized, and the performance of all three algo-
                          rithms was compared with the help of performance metrics. The integration of the IMU
                          with the ESP32 microcontroller enabled on-chip processing using a lightweight machine
                          learning algorithm which eliminated the need for external servers. Results demonstrate
Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13  8 of 9

                                       that the performance of random forest was better, demonstrating its superiority among
                                       the other utilized benchmark models. The Python programming language, specifically
                                       MicroPython v1.22.1 programming, was used to code the RF algorithm in the developed
                                       IoMT device. The results affirm the feasibility and practicality of the proposed framework
                                       in continuous seizure monitoring for epilepsy patients. In the near future, it is planned to
                                       develop a mobile application to display the status of monitored patients using open-source
                                       software. A continuous beep sound will be generated in the mobile application to alert
                                       caretakers to patient seizure events.

                                            Author Contributions: A.R. and N.V. conceptualized the idea for this manuscript. A.R. provided the
                                            resources. A.R. designed and developed the hardware for data acquisition. A.R. and N.V. carried
                                            out the investigation and curation of the acquired data. A.R. and N.V. validated the data and results
                                            acquired. A.R. prepared the original draft. A.R. and N.V. reviewed and edited the original draft. N.V.
                                            supervised and administered the work. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of
                                            the manuscript.

                                            Funding: This research received no external funding.

                                            Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.

                                            Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.

                                            Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available on request from the
                                            corresponding author.

                                            Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

References

1. Giourou, E.; Stavropoulou-Deli, A.; Giannakopoulou, A.; Kostopoulos, G.K.; Koutroumanidis, M. Introduction to epilepsy and
       related brain disorders. In Cyberphysical Systems for Epilepsy and Related Brain Disorders: Multi-Parametric Monitoring and Analysis
       for Diagnosis and Optimal Disease Management; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2015; pp. 11­38.

2. Sarmast, S.T.; Abdullahi, A.M.; Jahan, N. Current classification of seizures and epilepsies: Scope, limitations and recommendations
       for future action. Cureus 2020, 12, e10549. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

3. Roliz, A.H.; Kothare, S. The interaction between sleep and epilepsy. Curr. Neurol. Neurosci. Rep. 2022, 22, 551­563. [CrossRef]
       [PubMed]

4. Nobili, L.; de Weerd, A.; Rubboli, G.; Beniczky, S.; Derry, C.; Eriksson, S.; Halasz, P.; Högl, B.; Santamaria, J.; Khatami, R.; et al.
       Standard procedures for the diagnostic pathway of sleep-related epilepsies and comorbid sleep disorders: An EAN, ESRS and
       ILAE-Europe consensus review. Eur. J. Neurol. 2021, 28, 15­32. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

5. Anwar, H.; Khan, Q.U.; Nadeem, N.; Pervaiz, I.; Ali, M.; Cheema, F.F. Epileptic seizures. Discoveries 2020, 8, e110. [CrossRef]
6. Stafstrom, C.E.; Carmant, L. Seizures and epilepsy: An overview for neuroscientists. Cold Spring Harb. Perspect. Med. 2015,

       5, a022426. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
7. Sun, Z.; Ou, Q.; Dong, C.; Zhou, J.; Hu, H.; Li, C.; Huang, Z. Conducting polymer hydrogels based on supramolecular strategies

       for wearable sensors. Exploration 2024, 4, 20220167. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
8. Guo, Z.H.; Zhang, Z.; An, K.; He, T.; Sun, Z.; Pu, X.; Lee, C. A wearable multidimensional motion sensor for AI-enhanced VR

       sports. Research 2023, 6, 0154. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
9. Wu, Y.; Xiao, D.; Liu, P.; Liao, Q.; Ruan, Q.; Huang, C.; Liu, L.; Li, D.; Zhang, X.; Chu, P.K. Nanostructured conductive polypyrrole

       for antibacterial components in flexible wearable devices. Research 2023, 6, 0074. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
10. Amengual-Gual, M.; Fernández, I.S.; Loddenkemper, T. Patterns of epileptic seizure occurrence. Brain Res. 2019, 1703, 3­12.

       [CrossRef] [PubMed]
11. Kusmakar, S.; Karmakar, C.K.; Yan, B.; O'Brien, T.J.; Muthuganapathy, R.; Palaniswami, M. Automated detection of convulsive

       seizures using a wearable accelerometer device. IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng. 2018, 66, 421­432. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
12. Davidson, S.; McCallan, N.; Ng, K.Y.; Biglarbeigi, P.; Finlay, D.; Lan, B.L.; McLaughlin, J. Epileptic seizure classification using

       combined labels and a genetic algorithm. In Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE 21st Mediterranean Electrotechnical Conference
       (MELECON), Palermo, Italy, 14­16 June 2022; pp. 430­435. [CrossRef]
Eng. Proc. 2025, 106, 13  9 of 9

13. Roy, S.; Asif, U.; Tang, J.; Harrer, S. Seizure type classification using EEG signals and machine learning: Setting a benchmark. In
       Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE Signal Processing in Medicine and Biology Symposium (SPMB), Philadelphia, PA, USA, 5 December
       2020; pp. 1­6.

14. Liu, Y.; Sivathamboo, S.; Goodin, P.; Bonnington, P.; Kwan, P.; Kuhlmann, L.; O'Brein, T.; Perucca, P.; Ge, Z. Epileptic seizure
       detection using convolutional neural network: A multi-biosignal study. In Proceedings of the Australasian Computer Science
       Week Multiconference, Victoria, Australia, 3­7 February 2020; pp. 1­8.

15. Zabler, N.; Swinnen, L.; Biondi, A.; Novitskaya, Y.; Schütz, E.; Epitashvili, N.; Dümpelmann, M.; Richardson, M.P.; Van Paesschen,
       W.; Hirsch, M.; et al. High precision in epileptic seizure self-reporting with an app diary. Sci. Rep. 2024, 14, 15823. [CrossRef]
       [PubMed]

16. Komal, K.; Cleary, F.; Wells, J.S.G.; Bennett, L. A systematic review of the literature reporting on remote monitoring epileptic
       seizure detection devices. Epilepsy Res. 2024, 201, 107334. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

17. Yadav, R.; Agarwal, R.; Swamy, M.N.S. A novel dual-stage classifier for automatic detection of epileptic seizures. In Proceedings
       of the 2008 30th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, Vancouver, BC,
       Canada, 20­24 August 2008; pp. 911­914.

Disclaimer/Publisher's Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
